<h1> Condemned to Depth <h1>
<p>
<body>
After reading this short essay by Doa Aly, I am getting a vibe of the nostalgia of the good ol days of Egypt or what it could be today if so and so happened. I did not fully understand the full context due to Doa’s writing style which was difficult to understand for me. I just get the feeling of going back to memory lane of how artsy Egypt used to be and even the decaying process it is in right now. The pictures and descriptions explained how Doa and other artists made due with the surrounding to make art pieces that represented them. Like how she explained the lamppost in the museum giving life to vegetation around the lightbulb. Vegetation growing on architecture usually meant that the place was abandoned and nature took over. It was difficult to grasp but I just gotten an idea out of this! What if we can use AR to show people what a certain place used to be? This struck me when Doa quoted, “touch with one’s hands’ or ‘see with one’s eyes’ - and yet one cannot touch it with one’s hands or see it with one’s eyes.”[20] This quote from another quote reminded me of AR which you can touch/see but can not. Imagine a city concrete water alley. Normally those are always dry unless there was a rain going on the other day. But imagine it when it used to be a actual water running river with salmon swimming down it. Since human populating the area around the river, the river dried up. We can use AR to bring it back to the eyes like a AR museum. We can use this like a before and after effect with AR. 
</body>
</p>
<br>
Aly, Doa. "Condemned to Depth." Ibraaz. Accessed April 11, 2017. http://www.ibraaz.org/essays/172.
