Rana ElNemr's art installation, "Streams of Synonyms", attempts to tie together intentionally simple photographs with a strong socio-political narrative via the use of unlikely synonyms. Her photographs feature glimpses into the architecture and landscape of Cairo, Egypt. The "Streams of Synonyms" show is actually a smaller fragment of a larger body of work, "A Chapter of Synonyms". The collection features works created between 2010 and 2016 and is designed to illicit a conversation between real and imagined spaces. The show raises questions about the parallels between the concepts of surface and process, as well as the concepts of Capital and ideal. The location of King Marriout's former library features a prominent space in the dialogue. The library, an icon of the ephemeral nature of of the area, is an allusion to what was. We can not see the library, but only piece together what the area may have once been. Clues sprinkled in the photographs. The installation includes two videos, and, surprisingly, one sculpture. A lampost known as "The Living Object" is as ravaged by time and nature as the library. It's new life not to provide safety and light, but to be a host to the nature reclaining the area. Casting shadows to remind the viewer that its meaning has changed. Rana uses audio to compliment the physical spaces pulling the viewer in with all senses. Professor Dowider's voice projected into the space brings home the point that architecture is too like a living space, and subject to a life cycle just as much as the plants. I find this parallel to be illustrated in all urban areas. San Jose may not be as old as Cairo, but we see this existential quality in various stages downtown and even on campus. 

My most recent VR project accepts that architecture, and especially outdoor art installations, are subject to the elements. They may have been bright and shiny, well-intentioned upon conceivement. As nature wears away youth and the physio-political climate changes the area intentional objects may significantly change or loose their original meaning. On campus we have many fountains that once were highlights of the achitecture on campus. After years of drought these structures are empty. They have become neglected, dirty zeitgeists. My project hopes to reframe the current architecture, rebirthing the area, creating a new generation of art designed to be sustainable in California's drought riddled climate. I worry that reimagining an existing art piece may be seen as offensive, a slight to the original artist. I think if we accept art as having a lifecycle that it is not disservice at all. 
