

 Through the lens of Rana’s photograph, many stories in photography can express big part of the society issues and problems. It really invokes a strong emotion that people cannot forget about what happened throughout the image. They can guess it is a war-torn city, or even some guessed that the ruins is part of economic problems or heavy emphasis on poverty in this country.  Her photography reflected a huge portion of a story that narrates on the society issues and how people would react to it. Photography in general, is defined as “taking pictures”, “capturing beautiful sights”, and “capturing a moment in time”. From my viewpoint about photography, there are more in depth definition that just “taking pictures” or “capturing moments”, photography can narrate a story in a pictorial way so it reflects on different types of situations in different images. Pictures worth thousand words, so one image would tell at least half to one page of a story in a chapter book. In Rana’s photography, her images worth more than thousands words, it worth a ton. The images left me a strong impression of what war-torn cities look like and how people survive through poverty. In her series of images, many images would generate a heavy emphasis of desert and a city would lack of development of humanity.  I would agree with Aly with her point of view on the point on Rana’s photographs, the lacking of humanity and development and bringing civilization to a distant that this city would never existed. At some point, I have to disagree with Aly, about mystical future. Her photograph doesn’t seem going to progress in any way towards mystical future; at least it appears and expressed negativity throughout her series of images. I would argue and take on that her photography tells a story about war-torn city, poverty, and lack of civilization as well as its humanity.