I can't claim to understand everything in this essay. I might be over analyzing, under analyzing or reading in between the lines with how to explain or understand the meaning behind whats being said. But the ideas in which this essay brings up that I had found, are interesting in its own way. Doa talks quite heavily on imagery and the significance of a captured image of a space. Specifically how an artist intentionally designs the composition to frame the subject matter to create dissonance between a natural process and a man made one; which in this case is architecture vs plants. Moreover, the metaphysical process in the creation of space as an image compared to the realities of how the space actually came to be through human interaction. What is so strange about this reading is how Doa is so enthralled with Rana ElNemer's work, yet seemingly rejects any notion of a digital space/image because it lacks the true process of what the space represents with the injection of architecture, since each viewer brings their own subjectivity and awareness to its history. And that images create an obscurity towards the reality of its true space. What it feels to me, is that Doa is trying to convey that a space can be objectivly looked at as just a natural process by shattering its invisibility and removing our own thought processes. How is that honestly possible to do, when we are so immersed in our own time? We build space to connect, we share space to understand. Rejecting imagery of space is the same as rejecting a part of history. Time only moves forward and humans have the capacity to recall memories of the past, but can now also review images of a space in which to remember. The projection of our own history towards an image makes it a unique experience and space yet subtly reminds us of its true meaning. Images for me do not create this illusion of space, but propagate it through thought process.
