I wanted to use the tools I learned to create a glimpse into a fictional dystopian world from the future. The best way for my vision to come to life is through the use of VR. I was inspired by the television show 3% (available on Netflix) to create a society that worships two founders who created a new world. This society is separated by creating a world that is suspended in the clouds and with buildings that defy gravity. Each building is nearly identical to the rest except for one in that sits on its own. There is one building that is larger than the others that hangs ominously in the sky watching the society below. This building represents the council who oversees society and ensures that everyone is under their watchful eyes. The citizens will look up and know that they are being seen which can give a feeling of peace or dread. 


The main focal point in the town is a large conceptual statue of the two founders that cannot be ignored. Each founder is coming together to create a society that embraces their ideas and follows their lead. I kept everything in the society the same color to show conformity of the place and to give the viewer a sense of something wrong with this “perfect” place. The blimp looks like a peaceful view of the town but it also serves as another constant surveyor of its citizens. 


Aside from 3% (or 3 porcento, in its native Brazil), I was also inspired by themes and scenes from Fallout New Vegas, They Live, The Wanting Seed, and I’m sure, many others dystopian novels. 


I intentionally left light posts out of the scene because this society is not allowed from dusk until dawn. I also intentionally left trees and plants out of the society because this society farms from laboratories located inside the buildings and has no need for aesthetic beauty aside from looking at their buildings and the main sculpture piece of their founders. I imagine the citizens spending their “free time” (if they have any) admiring their surroundings and praising its creators.  I want my user to see a perfect society that is held above the clouds (both literally and figuratively) but see that even though everything is clean and uniform they see something is wrong with it. 
