The article written by Professor Claudia Hart is an interesting read. As an animation student working on becoming a Brigadier General in the "army of the military entertainment complex," hearing the point of view of a fine arts professor is interesting, if not a bit flustering. It seems that Professor Hart focuses more on the violence of videogames more so than on commercial films in her paper. Frankly, as a female who has played video games since she was in kindergarten, I’m wondering which games she’s been exposed to. The way she describes video games, versus the knowledge I’ve gained so far, reminds me of a classic technique in art: Camera Obscura. She seems to have a very limited scope of the field of video games, which results in conclusions coming out backwards. However, my professional leanings are not towards video games, but “multimillion dollar Hollywood effects films.” My reasons for wanting to join this field are a stark contrast to what Professor Hart assumes. I don’t pursue feature length animations for money or fame. In fact, my goal is to work for very large company, with steady income, health insurance, and a very small cubicle. I don’t expect any glitz or glamor, I simply want to have a hand in creating films which continue to engage and inspire people of all ages. These films, much like fine art, have a ‘show, don’t tell’ mentality and the ability to evoke strong emotional responses from a broad audience.  Isn’t this what fine arts craves as well? I don’t think commercial arts and fine arts has to be so fragmented. I feel that they have supported each other in the past, and continue to do so.
