##Reading 1##
This article was inspiring in that it prominently addresses the issue of women often being excluded in technical fields such as the field of developing games (relevant to 3D rendering) or engineering oriented fields in general.  Aside from the societal inspirations, the author sets aside her personal prejudices to address a more key issue which prevents creativity from flourishing in her industry.  Essentially, the way I interpreted her analysis was that she observed through her teaching that mainstream entertainment actually limits the creative ability of students by affecting their interests when they consume the very entertainment that they would be creating.  It’s my belief that this core issue actually has a much broader effect in that our obsession with consumerism puts us in overly comfortable positions to the point that we no longer feel the need to use our practical knowledge or critical thinking skills for the purpose of creation.  Because of this, 3D entertainment can be seemingly redundant but it is proposed that thinking on not such corporate terms could help students create entertainment that actually impresses.  I myself am interested in working with 3D for purposes of game creation (usage of assets), and interface design (often operating systems have 3D UI elements).  I am also certainly inspired to devise ideas which are simple yet unique to anything anyone has done.  The 3D aspect is important to me as I have always craved an element of realism in my work, which is only semi accomplished by 2D.  Finally, I also foresee the usefulness of being able to preserve these models, not only for digital asset usage, but also for the physical creation of models through 3D printing which is very usefully commercially due to the quickness of producing such a product.
