
<title>Reading Response 1 </title>
<br>
The article “Under Fire: 3D Animation Pedagogy and Industry Complicity in New Media Education” by Claudia Hart was in all quite right here and there to my thoughts. As the so called pipelines of hollywood films and games in general are more catered towards the homo-social side, one can not really ignore the fact that it was made for a certain audience. These big industry has to make what sells to the general masses or they probably would not existed past their 5 year mark. Yes in a way 3D artists those work for them have to compile to the demands needed. It was their own decisions to work for another person’s or a group’s vision/dream/project. If capitalism can be more of an even playground, a more diversified group of industries can be formed. There would be masculine games, feminine games, political games, or what have you. Every one of these industry work with every type of artists to create a multi-cultural entertainment. But this is the real world. When Claudia created the X3D program for the more diverse and unique artists, I would have to say that that is the first step. Then starting from there, create another industry to go with the mainstream big guys. Though it will be difficult as moving a mountain, every big companies started that way. As for my reasons in working with the virtual 3D realm, I am really just here to invoke my desires to become better as an artist and have some fun combining it with my interests. One is to make plastic model kit runners from the 3D printers to create my own Gundam/Toys. Maybe start a 3rd party distributor on eBay and sell them. Second is to create a variety of alternate costumes and skins for random characters or people from anywhere. I was always interested in the many different variant iteration of Marvel’s Spiderman. I hope to create these costumes for 3D animation for gaming characters, models, and just for the fun of it to mess with my friends. 
</br>
