
The article is thought provoking. It points out a trend in video games and how women are objectified. Claudia Hart who was a 3D artist felt that women should not be captured in such a way. Many video games depict violent and pornographic suggestions towards women. Hart wanted to educate that women can be captured in a sensual and romantic way despite posed in nude. I agree that it is important to teach a creative field as a whole than doing the bare minimun. She feels that it is limiting when students are not challenged and they stick to the norm. She uses feminism as a way to describe how the gaming industry produces art like machines with little creativity. Little creativity refering to the scantily clothed women that liter female character design. 

For me, I am interested in working in 3D modeling because I have an interest in the gaming industry. I find that 3D modeling can apply to many art fields. It is useful to sculpt a 3D object as reference or making prototypes. In experimentation, I want to learn to use 3D modeling in mixed media. One of my favorite 3D artist is Swedish artist, Pandagunda. He mixes 3D modeling with portraits. His work was featured in many music videos and award shows like the VMAs. I am interested in exploring space outside of 2D constraint and learning new programs is a good way to step out of my comfort zone.

I find 3D printing to be very practical for interior design and architecture. I know architects take time to craft a prototype for a project or building. So 3D printing would make the process simpler. For interior design, I have seen innovative ways 3D printing is used. Clay can be as filament for printing ceramics. Complicated patterns and shapes can be accomplished easily with 3D printing. However, the world is exposed to 3D art through video games. Personally, I find 3D art in video games to be more design than art. It focuses on environment and character design, 3D art allows these designs to be iterated over and over. Seeing design trends in game art becomes bland for me over time. I get used to seeing the same thing in games where I lose appreciation for the art itself. I play the games as a game without noticing the details in the graphics. 
