
It seems to me the main idea of this article is to inform its audience upon the narrow practices and usage of 3D animation taught in universities more specifically art institutions. Hart(2010) states and implies that some colleges are a boot camp for armies of the military entertainment complex(p. 1). In other words, students in these institutions learned narrow specialized skills used solely in big industries, films, games, etc. and destroys the creative process of pushing new tools in other directions. This is probably what Hart meant by “baby and the bathwater,” an expression that implies something good is eliminated when getting rid of something bad. 

I agreed with Hart and what she is saying in this article. The purpose of higher education is to provide us, students, the necessary skills we need in order to succeed in the work force. Therefore, it not surprising to me that what is taught, in this case skills associating with 3d animation, is skills geared towards the production styles of big companies like Disney. In the mind of other students however, I acknowledge that this might sound better and more practical. Some students today are going to college and taking art classes, not to be an artist but, to get a job they want which requires those skills. Living in a capitalist economy like the United States I found it hard and risky to argue against the skill requirements of corporate establishments. I also often struggle choosing between financial stability and personal interest in my career path. 

My interest in 3d correlates to the desires of being involve in the process of creating a virtual reality. There are so many applications for VR such as military, education, healthcare, entertainment, fashion, engineering, sports, film, etc. 

blending both environments so that they are indistinguishable for the purpose of entertainment. This idea can be mostly achieved through virtual reality headsets.  

