Reading: Under Fire: 3D Animation Pedagogy and Industry Complicity in New Media Education by Claudia Hart

One of the biggest things I noticed while reading is how negatively Claudia feels about commercial art and the entertainment industry. She views schools and the programs that prepare students with vocational skills as myopic, churning out students that lack creativity and big picture thinking. As someone enrolled in the SJSU Animation/Illustration program I find Claudia's assertions jaded and descriptive of a worst-case scenario. In contrast to her assertions, our A/I program is strong in the areas of both foundational skills and creative projects. I understand that not all programs are created the same, and not all entertainment art focused programs may be as well rounded or as in-depth, but I don't think the only answer to a quality art education is a fine arts focus. Anyone who can learn to draw, paint, conceptualize, and design will be able to execute a wide variety of projects. 

To understand Claudia's perspective I find it important to view both art fields from a historical perspective. Traditionally, fine art and commercial art were considered two unrelated fields, with very separate focuses. According to thebalance.com, "Commercial art’s purpose is to sell products, while fine art’s purpose is to be an aesthetic object to be appreciated for its fine and unique qualities." "Up to the mid-20th century, the difference between commercial art and fine art was quite clear. Commercial art included television and print advertisements, and mass produced images, while fine art consisted of one-of-a-kind unique objects such as paintings, sculptures and works on paper that were exhibited in art galleries and museums." It wasn't until Andy Warhol began to mash up the two genres, creating Pop Art, that the two fields mixed. While art schools may keep the the two programs separate, new fields inspire new areas of study that require a mix of skills in both fields. I don't think it is wrong to have degrees that prepare students with valuable skills that will prepare them for jobs. Sometimes you need a skilled worker. such as one who can install your cabinets that you purchased from Home Depot, and sometimes you need a designer who can design a new kitchen and cabinets for you from scratch. The world needs both types of workers. 

I applaud Claudia's interest in elevating 3d and modern art technologies to a fine art level. I love the idea of taking new mediums and validating them within the art community. I am personally very interested in the intersection of art and technology and I am excited to try working in new mediums such as AR and VR. Ultimately, I believe that art is more about an artist's expression and the artist should choose whatever medium/s best convey their message. Technology is expanding our palettes. I don't think conveying a message and challenging the audience are mutually exclusive to entertainment. I don't think the motives of profit or entertainment invalidate the hard work and creativity of individual artists.

Ultimately I appreciate Claudia's contribution to the academic art world. She is trying to reimagine art education for the evolving field of 3D as well as the emerging related technologies. Interestingly, her classes take a thematic approach. According to claudiahart.com, "My classes bundle conceptually and formally related skills." For example, "Digital Bodies uses experimental dance films as the artistic inspiration for teaching character animation." and "Atmospheric Animation is a class in which fluid environments evoke atmospheres, to create a stage for enacting physics simulations." I think the world can always use a fresh set of eyes to pioneer and innovate. Claudia's X3D program sounds like an amazing environment designed to foster experimentation while learning necessary skills, designed to train the artistic leaders of the future. 

As an artist I am extremely interested building a 3d skill set. The 3D field is growing in importance every day. My background is in traditional media, graphic design, and photography. I have primarily worked in 2D, along with a smattering of 3D sculpture.  I am currently working to grow my digital art skills. I came to the program at SJSU to focus on visual development. After studying for a year I have come to realize how important animation skills are. As the entertainment industry evolves viz dev artists are expected to have a background in 3d. In my spare time I help out at a local indie game studio. I would like to participate in more of the concept and design areas of the projects. The games are developed in Unity, which is 3D based, so I was very excited to hear that we may be working with the same software in class. Designing for 3D printing, AR, and VR sound fascinating and unlike any projects I have worked prior to this class. A friend who works at Oculus Story Studio has offered me a chance to try out the Quill hardware (https://www.oculus.com/story-studio/quill/), which allows the user to draw in the 3D. I hope to take him up on the offer soon. Glen Keane's I am also interested in trying out ZBrush because I have heard it is fairly natural to use if you have experience with traditional sculpting.

My first exposure to 3D painting was when I watched Glen Keane, of Disney fame, paint in VR in "Step into the Page" (https://vimeo.com/138790270). Like many people, I was excited about the new potential directions of storytelling. A year later, Jan Pinkava, formerly of Pixar, did a presentation for the Shrunkenheadman Club about Google's Spotlight Stories. It was clear to me that VR storytelling had grown as a field since my first introduction. We viewed several shorts, including Keane's VR story "Duet". I felt immediately immersed, enjoying his story's choose your own adventure format and lively drawings. I think this type of storytelling, while still in its infancy, is a taste of what is to come. I recommend downloading the Google Spotlight Stories app and experiencing the variety of shorts available. Add Google Cardboard to make the experience more immersive.


Hart, Claudia. "EDUCATION Experimental 3D." Claudia Hart. Accessed January 31, 2017. http://www.claudiahart.com/education/education.html.

Kendzulak, Susan. "What is the Difference between Commercial Art and Fine Art?" The Balance. August 15, 2016. Accessed January 31, 2017. https://www.thebalance.com/commercial-vs-fine-art-1295902.