Through painting, sculpting, photography and traditional forms of art, artists have portrayed their point of view or fantasies for centuries. As technology emerges, new mediums for art creation are practiced. 3D modeling and printing, augmented reality and virtual reality have become the main substances for new media creation these days. Subsequently, the audience’s experience of being exposed to these forms of art has become a more tangible one where they can feel it is somewhat “actually real”.
 
According to Claudia Hart, the 3D modeling, 3D animation and game design fields are severely androcentric. Her incredibly inspiring productions embody femininity, innocence and beauty in contrast with machismo, violence and militarism. Hart’s virtual representations of mesmerizing nature and woman in the Renaissance radiate emotional warmth and sensitivity. She motivates artists creating 3D computer-generated imagery to escape favoring of men over women.
 
We all have individually unique visions when we close our eyes. We also perceive our surroundings distinctively from others. The difference in how we see the world, existent or non-existent, is for us to show as artists.
 
It is my passion to translate my visions into forms and models for others to see as well. I am mostly inspired by colors and patterns. Having attended Brewery Art-walk in Los Angeles, I got to meet and talk with many artists displaying rich body of work. One of the artworks that had a remarkable impact on me was created by **Kevin Mack**; a Digital Fine Artist. Using 3D computer graphics, he makes virtual art, animations and 3D printed sculptures. What amazed me most was the connection between his [3D printed sculptures](http://www.kevinmackart.com/sculpture.html) and [VR art](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1G2THJuZxeE). It felt as if the VR scenes were taken place inside the same sculptures he had built.