    In this article, Claudia made an excellent point on artistic skills and creativity; which skills and foundation came from extensive training while students are in college, so students can benefit from learning from it as their learning outcomes. Professor Hart made a point which struck me; she claimed that the main goal of learning skills that applies to 3d modeling which benefits students’ working in the real world as well as bigger corporations like Pixar, EA, Ubisoft, and Nexon. For me personally, Claudia views art jobs in society, and how people perceived aesthetics from 3d printing and modeling. From this article, Professor Hart addressed it is practical to acquire skills for 3D modeling at an art institute. From my point of view, this is not practical at all. Students get higher education for a purpose, not just randomly chosen. Their learning outcomes would  be using creativity and aesthetic skills to solidly learn from it. Yet, I believe that students have more objectives to push and thrive their creativity to be an artist.	
    From my enjoyment of working on virtual 3D is that many gaming applications can have 3-dimensional applications as well as modeling gaming environment. As such, console and computer gaming as well as to interior and architectural designs. As designs progresses, mathematical approach can also be modeled by using three-dimensional analytical geometry with virtual 3D applications, not just 2D. Which this known today as geometric manifolds (differential geometry). 3D modeling is universal, ranging from architectural designs and engineering, as well as mathematical ideas. It is critical for me to have knowledge about virtual 3D since it is applicable in life. Therefore, my interest is in broad range that bridges over from art to mathematical computer language to designing virtual 3D.