We, as artists, are limited by the ideas we bring to the table in any type of industry. It is our job to playfully experiment with any or all forms of medium, in order to achieve new and innovative conceptual ideas and objects that push the envelope. Claudia Hart has very valid points in this paper, because I too felt cheated at certain points in my vast experience within the educational system. As a student going for an artistic career, one would think that expressionism within the medium is a huge aspect of what makes the industry appealing; yet the system has standards that need to be approved, so that each student has equal opportunity to learn the subject. But instead of creating a flourishing in depth environment to enhance our knowledge and creativity, it becomes a different beast that marginalize student growth by forcing a particular repetitive pipeline that dulls the senses as Claudia mentions. When I was first introduced into 3D environments, the first thing I wanted to do was to understand it, create my own world and then break it apart. Exploring this new tool without restrictions from a school project standpoint led to one of my favorite art pieces I have created; because something as simple as playing can drastically change an artists aesthetics, as well as the audience's perspective. You can visually see creative development once an artist has his/her model of work expand beyond the confounds of what this industrial style educational system has given us to use. But this new vision cannot be done with the assembly line mentality because it creates an all too commonplace structure that is easier to manage.

Entering into the Digital Media Art program has allowed me get my feet wet in all things technological, innovative, artistic design. And I believe that this umbrella effect produces amazing work because they all stack and build upon each other in different ways. Its uses can continually grow and change as needed, and that fluidity is necessary in my opinion to break the mold. 3D space can become new beginnings for everyone who accept its freedom, changing our senses to embrace the potential in experimentation and our perspective of the world(s).