	In Under Fire: 3D Animation Pedagogy and Industrial Complicity in New Media Education, Claudia Hart discusses the masculinity of 3D animations and issues with the game industry. She believes that the classes have become too specialized and this suppresses the creative potential of the medium. In an attempt to counteract the mechanical nature of the current curriculum, she created the X3D program to give students more freedom to express themselves and use 3D technologies creatively. At the bottom of the passage, G. Roger Denson takes a bleaker perspective on the violence of the male avatar and Claudia Hart's defiance of the standard. Denson reprimands male gamers who indulge in fantasies of shooting and rape. The worlds Hart creates are in reaction to the myths of rape with sanctuaries in the digital realm.
	Denson's interpretation was unnecessary for the article and reads more like angry ramblings that one tends to ignore. It twists the tone of the article into one of negativity. While Hart's writing was focused on her attempts to create ways for artists to expand in the world of 3D animation, Denson is very focused on blaming males for the violence and rape. Hart explained that she had blamed the masculinity of the industry at the beginning, but changed her views when she started teaching and discovered the doctrine that pervaded in the classroom.
	The ability to virtually sculpt is interesting as it saves on cost of materials. If I wanted to create a physical sculpture it could still be used to create a sketch of what the sculpture could look like, though the pieces never end up exactly like the sketches in the end. Animation also opens up possibilities in game design and with interactive pieces.
