Reading Response 1
In the article, “Under Fire: 3D Animation Pedagogy and Industry complicity in New Media Education, Claudia Hart explained how students are taught in a way that follows the assembly line of the company’s production style. This means that they are not able to express their creativity in their art work because big entertainment company wants students to follow the company’s traditional pipeline. Students are taught specific topics and follows the narrow production abilities which restricts them to think outside the box. It is easy for everyone to be an artist, but to have the required skills that the company needs then one must have to enroll in specific classes to gain the knowledge of certain programs and skills that is required to get a job. I must disagree with her argument in some degree because each big entertainment company such as Disney, Pixar, Dreamworks, etc. are produced differently and delivering different things than the other. As Claudia explained how contemporary art is not really fully realized yet, it would be hard to showcase contemporary in these companies because the company’s main focus isn’t about delivering contemporary art, but the execution of producing things that follows the work flow. 
I am interested in working with virtual 3D because I find it amazing how things are done from scratch to the finishing product. My interest grew as I played video games and always questioned myself how they made these objects and how the game came about. The possibilities are endless when producing an object with a 3D application. Also, learning how to create a 3D object will be very useful in everyday life not just in games because this application will be very universal, and will be great to create an object that would be good for pitching when presenting a new idea.
