Response to Under Fire Panel Presentation Reading:

I enjoyed how well articulated Claudia Hart makes her arguments on her perspective about how the social constructs masculine hierarchy can have an impact on the diversity in 3D animation and artwork in general within the digital space. I am indifferent to whether or not she is concentrating her own personal experiences being a female outlier within a male dominated industry, on the overall paradigm of the game industry today. Overall I can agree with what she touches upon, including with how she exposes the militarization of gaming and their effects as the violence becomes more grotest and real with technologies like VR. I can also see the correlation between how she points out the oversaturation of fps shooting games and the amount of DVD/video tutorials available for people to learn from, which has become more than standardized, leaving less space for creativity. I found it compelling that she found her students that did not have previous knowledge or abilities in 3D animation, were creating a plethora of unique designs. This made sense to me since I view 3D art as being adaptive and open ended enough for artists to create things virtually within their own normal body of work, closing in on the learning curve. The work Claudia created is definitely pushing the limits of acceptance and aesthetic qualities. In my opinion, there is some social irony in which she is opposed of the over stimulation of female sexuality, while her work involves heavily with female nudity. 
