<p>
After reading the article, “Transhumanism and the Promise of the Bodiless Mind in the Original Ghost in the Shell” by Dan Schindel, I absolutely admired this read in terms of content and speculation because I had many thoughts cross reference. For example, one topic they talk about was the idea of whether one can prove that they exist despite. Based off the Ghost in a shell world, cybernetic enhancement and robotic implants is the way of the future. However, one character questions whether they actually exist by asking, “Can you offer me proof of your existence? How can you, when neither modern science nor philosophy can explain what life is?” For me, this a very grey and controversial area. I say so, because based on a YouTube video I saw called “Mindblowing theories about the Unverse,” some scientist theorize that the universe can be possibly many bizarre things such as a giant hologram or a giant super computer. The point is that there are ideas and theories the make us questions our exist, but I the quote “I think, therefore I am” proves our conscious existence despite being biological or cybernetic. This means that because we independently can think for ourselves, then we must exist. 
</P>
<p>On another note, the idea of consciousness being a questionable issu also reminds me of another movie “Chappie.” In the movie, “ Chappie is a robot starts to learn and have human-like qualities, yet he finds out that his body is dying. As a result, he uses intelligence to figure out what consciousness is, and then he copies that data and transcodes it onto another robotic body. He does this to himself two other characters: his creator and a woman. At the time of his copying his creator, his creator’s original body dies as it is being transcode. However, when Chappie copies the woman, she does not die at that time, and her conscious data is safely stored. If one logically looks at this, then Chappie could have potentially transcoded the consciousness of the woman into a robotic body and made two beings of that woman. For me this makes me question the concept from Ghost in the Shell. In the article the main character “doubts at times whether she ever had a real body, speculating that she herself may have been built, like the Puppet Master.” I wonder if upgrading the human body can be done. Does it fall more along the lines of transcoding or robotic cloning? In my opinion, I think that this idea of upgrading oneself would be more like making a robotic clone instead. What I mean by this is that once the biological version of a being dies, the real version of one is gone despite the robotic image. Another reason I say this because I also question is it possible for a robot to transcend in terms of being a ghost or spirit, and I have to say no.  The reason why is because I can’t a machine such as a laptop can’t become a ghost as far as we know. 
</p>
