Science fiction consistantly has been a popular source of technological speculation. While such fiction may be created by writers who are not academics in techonological arenas, it is impressive how many authors have correctly predicted the advancement of society. Science fiction has correctly predicted the credit card, tanks, earbuds, video chat, space travel, antidepressants, electric cars, and more.  Many authors imagined these seemingly fantastic concepts oftend decades before the real life versions materialized. Impressively, Jules Verne's book "The Earth to the Moon" was released in 1865, predating the 1968 Apollo 11 mission by almost 100 years. While Verne did not get all the details of a manned moon landing quite right, he was remarkably close on many of the important details. "Verne’s astronauts were launched from a Florida site in an aluminum capsule. He even did remarkably accurate calculations as to the amount of force that would be needed to propel the rocket out of Earth’s atmosphere." (Thor 2017) 

Today writers continue to speculate about humanity's future, and transhumanist science ficion asks how technology will alter what it means to be human. What will society look like when we can move past our physical and mental limitations? When I think of transhumanist fiction I grew up with I think of fondly of "The Matrix", "Dr Who", "Catspaw", and the "X-Men". I bring these titles up in particular because they all have very different visions of the future. In the movie "The Matrix" humans live inside pods from birth, living life in an alternate reality, unaware. Joan D. Vinge's "Catspaw" cyberpunk novel was my first exposure to humans interfacing directly with computer, the main character surfing the hardware and data connections mentally, hacking the computer system in a way that was never intended. The X-Men universe discusses the lives of genetically mutant humans who have evolved powers, and often discusses body modification in the context of enhancing the capabilities of humans. Finally, the long-running Dr. Who BBS tv show episodically addresses sci-fi scenerios, and regularly features long-running characters that show the logical extreme of transhumanism, notably the Cybermen and the Daleks. 

Which version of the future might come true? I suspect that there are potential grains of truth in all of these stories. Looking at areas of current technological research and advancement illuminates potential paths the human race could go down. According to Michael Anissimov, board member of the Lifeboat Foundation, transhumanism does not need to be self-centered and self-serving. Transhumanists can use technological advancements for the greater good of humaninty by "eliminating disease, providing cheap but high-quality products to the world’s poorest, improving quality of life and social interconnectedness, and so on." His list of the top 10 technologies to aid the transhumanist cause features many technologies that are currently in development or are already viable products. Anissimov continues to say, "Transhumanists tend to take a longer-than-average view of technological progress, looking not just five or ten years into the future but twenty years, thirty years, and beyond. We realize that the longer you look forward, the more uncertain the predictions get, but one thing is quite certain: if a technology is physically possible and obviously useful, human (or transhuman!) ingenuity will see to it that it gets built eventually."

Anissimov, Michael. "Lifeboat Foundation." Top Ten Transhumanist Technologies. Accessed April 27, 2017. https://lifeboat.com/ex/transhumanist.technologies.

Jensen, Thor. "The Moon Landing: Futurists Were Right: 10 Predictions Made By Sci-Fi Writers That Came True." Tested. Accessed April 21, 2017. http://www.tested.com/tech/concepts/460223-futurists-were-right-10-predictions-made-sci-fi-writers-came-true/item/moon-landing/. 
