


  The author pointed out that the society is moving forward with technology in a rapid pace. I agree with that, many cases in human world now transformed into a digital, virtual, also augmented reality. In many cases we are now living in a cyber-human world. This draws my connection to an anime called “Yu-Gi-Oh”, this anime reflected upon cyber-human world and augmented reality card game. I have to agree with this author that people are living in a futuristic world and everything is made up with “computer” and “machineries”.  From my point of view, this anime speaks directly with the author’s point about how humanity transforms into a cyber-human world. Anyways, this anime discusses about how people would live in a future society. I would have to advocate about transhumance in “Yu-Gi-Oh” that advances the society with VR and AR world. In this anime, the story tells about the trans-human world and the social dimension about how people would communicate towards AI and the computers. It suggested that futuristic society would utilize many technological resources to present its cybernetic representation of players versus computers. I think, this anime has a strong representation of trans-humanistic society and how it would create a “bodiless” society in technological representation. From my point of view, this anime speculates the cyber world of humans, computer, virtual and augmented reality.  From “Yu-Gi-Oh”, I would heavily point out and explain that digital society have significantly mass-produced virtual and augmented reality as well as social dimension aspect. I can see that the connection that I drew from the anime that has some distinct connections between cyberspace and cyber-brain; that is, using virtual and augmented reality to pair up with partners and teleport into a virtual arena and start competing with other opponents. For me, this anime shares similarities that trans-humanism  occurs where people’s mind and soul taken over by technological and virtual realities.